# Why XDC Network

XDC Network is the global, open-source blockchain technology solution built by XinFin. Using a delegated proof of stake consensus (XDPoS), XDC Network supports instant block finality, near-zero gas fees, and smart contracts to support institutional use in trade finance, asset tokenization, and various blockchain based solutions. Featuring interoperable smart contracts, 2,000 transactions per second, and Ethereum Virtual Machine compatibility, the XDC Network provides a scalable infrastructure for enterprises, independent community contributors, and developers.&#x20;

Singapore-based XinFin launched the XDC Network mainnet in 2019 with the goal of transforming real-world business processes, particularly in the global trade and finance markets. In Q1 2021, the XDC Foundation was established as a legal entity incorporated for the express purpose of supporting the XDC Network, which relies on the input of community members to decentralize its influence. As part of its mission, the XDC Foundation seeks to encourage the development and use of the open-source XDC Network, which is currently being utilized by a variety of third-party operations.

The network's ISO 20022 compatible messaging system ensures interoperability with the language of core banking systems, ERP systems, SWIFT, and others. Cross-chain Ethereum based tokens and projects, such as ERC-20 and ERC721, can be migrated to the network, vastly improving scalability, speed, and providing nearly non-existent gas fees. The XDC Network is well-positioned to be a bridge between public blockchain networks and legacy systems.

The XDC Network supports digital smart contracts that can be utilized to support asset digitization, tokenization, and facilitate cross-border transactions in real-time at nearly no cost to the user. Distributed Applications (DAPPS) can be leveraged for various applications and business processes in supply chain, financing, procurement, distribution, and settlement. For example, Tradefinex is a marketplace platform that connects global participants of the trade and finance industry, enabling global contracting, financing, payments, and settlements through authorized financial institutions.

A recently published whitepaper showcases the XDC Network’s proposed consensus upgrade to (XDPoS 2.0). This protocol upgrade forecasts a network with forensics capabilities, accountability and attributability, creating the ability to identify malicious actors with cryptographic integrity directly from blockchain records.
